README.md, before:

# DS4-Type-C
Hate microUSB? Looking to decrease cable clutter? This is the PS4 mod for you. This repo aims to host mostly drop-in USB Type C replacement boards for all revisions of PS4 controller. The goal for each board is to follow the USB Type C standard, and to include pads for those who wish to impedance match the USB data lines. Either solder in resistors here to compensate, or simply use a solder/wire bridge. The overall project goal is to keep all possible parts the same between boards, and to make it reasonablly easy for a person of moderate skill to populate these boards. This is an open source project though, so you're free to download [KiCad](https://www.kicad.org/download/) and start making modifications to these boards so that you can more easily populate them.

I used a 0.8mm PCB when I originally made these, and found it worked quite well. Gives a little more room to work inside the controller. Cost will likely depend on which board house you choose to go through. 

#### The Casual Coders Tindie store is now live! Head on over to [shop.casualcoders.dev](https://shop.casualcoders.dev) or [tindie.com/stores/casualcoders](https://www.tindie.com/stores/casualcoders/) (they're the same thing) if you'd like to purchase PCBs, Kits, or Pre-Assembled boards by one of us!

## Tutorial To Manufacture and assemble these boards.
[![Tutorial to manufacture these boards](https://img.youtube.com/vi/DVEYy7VKs3Q/0.jpg)](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DVEYy7VKs3Q)

# Supported boards

| DS4 Board   | Tested  | PCB                   | Connector | Led | Pictures | Credits |
|-------------|---------|-----------------------|----|--------|----------|---------|
| **JDS-001** | &#9744; | [001-011](/001%20011) | 14 | Old | [Schematic](/001%20011/001.svg), [Front](/001%20011/001_Front.png), [Back](/001%20011/001_Back.png) | [^cred001] |
| **JDS-011** | Untested - Fixed Pinout(?) | [001-011](/001%20011) | 12 | Old | [Schematic](/001%20011/001.svg), [Front](/001%20011/001_Front.png), [Back](/001%20011/001_Back.png) | [^cred011] |
| **JDS-030** | Untested - Fixed Pinout(?) | [030](/030)           | 12 | Old | [Schematic](/030/030.svg), [Front](/030/030_Front.png), [Back](/030/030_Back.png) | [^cred030] |
| **JDS-040** | &#9746; | [040-055](/040%20055) | 12 | New | [Schematic](/040%20055/040%20055.svg), [Front](/040%20055/040%20055_Front.png), [Back](/040%20055/040%20055_Back.png) | [^cred055] |
| **JDS-05X** | &#9746; | [040-055](/040%20055) | 12 | New | [Schematic](/040%20055/040%20055.svg), [Front](/040%20055/040%20055_Front.png), [Back](/040%20055/040%20055_Back.png) | [^cred055] |

[^cred001]:
    The original work for this board was done [here](https://github.com/HDR/DualShock4-USB-C) by Martin Refseth. I reworked his board to create kicad and schematic files for it. I also added compensation resistors as discussed above.
[^cred011]:
    Thanks to IcicaSora for providing the schematic for 011
[^cred030]:
    Thanks to 12brendan3 for providing the schematic for 030
[^cred055]:
    According to reddit user [u/Mcorgano](https://www.reddit.com/r/PS4Mods/comments/p2q3da/selling_dropin_replacement_type_c_charge_boards/h8oozja/) the pinout is supposedly the same between JDS-040 and JDS-055. The [idea](https://www.reddit.com/r/PS4Mods/comments/p2q3da/selling_dropin_replacement_type_c_charge_boards/h8os8rh/) for this dual board also comes from the same user.  
As of 11/08/2021, the 055 pinout has been confirmed by reddit user [u/jrmanpt](https://old.reddit.com/r/PS4Mods/comments/p6g08b/open_sourcing_the_type_c_charge_boards_help_me/hjoxedu/)
[^credresistormatching]:
    Thanks to CSab6482 in issue #4 for the suggestion to standardize the resistor numbering across all boards. Now R1/R2 are 5.1k and R3+ are 0 Ohm.
    
### Universal
The idea here is to create one "panelized" board which contains all above boards (JDS 001, 011, 030, 040, 050, 055). This means that someone could easily acquire a board for all controllers, then populate the one they need.  
Work can now begin for this panel. Though I've done enough work in March, so this will happen later.

# Parts
The goal with parts is to stay as consistent as possible between boards. Unfortunately, we have to use two types of RGB LED between the older and newer boards, but the goal is for this to be the only difference. Resistors are standardized to 0603 using the kicad hand_solder pads. We use USB type C connector C-31-M-12 to make soldering easy. Additionally, we use the Molex 530480 line of FPC connectors on all boards.  

Footprints or symbols which do not come with kicad by default are to be declared as project libraries, and included in the board directory as .pretty files. See 040 055 for as a reference.  

- New RGB LED:          [MSL0601RGBU1](https://www.mouser.com/ProductDetail/ROHM-Semiconductor/MSL0601RGBU1?qs=F5EMLAvA7IAg0rK0mfHa6w%3D%3D)
- Old RGB LED:          [MSL0104RGB](https://www.mouser.com/ProductDetail/ROHM-Semiconductor/MSL0104RGBU1?qs=%2Fha2pyFaduhThMWGX8bFHltJ8rIVfHrbMpgQU1T0g7RvDKWc6HIiGQ%3D%3D)
- USB Type C:           [Type-C-31-M-12](https://www.lcsc.com/product-detail/USB-Type-C_Korean-Hroparts-Elec-TYPE-C-31-M-12_C165948.html)
- FPC Connector - 12:   [503480-1200](https://www.mouser.com/ProductDetail/Molex/503480-1200?qs=%2Fha2pyFaduiit5JSGz5lsv1U%252BbZL3U56cNxg7eoCvCy3Ie8rHq3SFA%3D%3D)
- FPC Connector - 14:   [503480-1400](https://www.mouser.com/ProductDetail/Molex/503480-1400?qs=%2Fha2pyFadujj30aImGpM0ckpak%252BVtmx2aY5U9nBD5Hh2NWtQuUTDBg%3D%3D)
- Resistors:            [0603](https://www.mouser.com/Passive-Components/Resistors/Film-Resistors/Thin-Film-Resistors-SMD/_/N-7gz44?Keyword=0603&FS=True)
    - 2x 5.1k Ohm (Allows C to C charging) R1/R2 [All boards][^credresistormatching]
    - 2x 0 Ohm (Optional. Use for Impedance matching) R3/R4+ [All boards]

Commit message:

Update 030 and 040 055 board to include screw mounting holes

README.md, after:

# Fork Details
This is a fork of an older version of the DS4 USB type C board, which adds screw holes to the 030 and 040 055 PCBs. These boards have also been altered to have slightly more finger-friendly corners.

The zero-ohm resistors use for matching the lengths of the data lines to the applicable connector have been removed to free up space for the screw hole.

This is based on an older version of the original board as I already had the LEDs from these older designs available, and the LED used by the newer design seems to have limited availability in the UK.

Both boards have been tested and installed in controllers.


# Original Readme

# DS4-Type-C
Hate microUSB? Looking to decrease cable clutter? This is the PS4 mod for you. This repo aims to host mostly drop-in USB Type C replacement boards for all revisions of PS4 controller. The goal for each board is to follow the USB Type C standard, and to include pads for those who wish to impedance match the USB data lines. Either solder in resistors here to compensate, or simply use a solder/wire bridge. The overall project goal is to keep all possible parts the same between boards, and to make it reasonablly easy for a person of moderate skill to populate these boards. This is an open source project though, so you're free to download [KiCad](https://www.kicad.org/download/) and start making modifications to these boards so that you can more easily populate them.

I used a 0.8mm PCB when I originally made these, and found it worked quite well. Gives a little more room to work inside the controller. Cost will likely depend on which board house you choose to go through. 

#### The Casual Coders Tindie store is now live! Head on over to [shop.casualcoders.dev](https://shop.casualcoders.dev) or [tindie.com/stores/casualcoders](https://www.tindie.com/stores/casualcoders/) (they're the same thing) if you'd like to purchase PCBs, Kits, or Pre-Assembled boards by one of us!

## Tutorial To Manufacture and assemble these boards.
[![Tutorial to manufacture these boards](https://img.youtube.com/vi/DVEYy7VKs3Q/0.jpg)](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DVEYy7VKs3Q)

# Supported boards

| DS4 Board   | Tested  | PCB                   | Connector | Led | Pictures | Credits |
|-------------|---------|-----------------------|----|--------|----------|---------|
| **JDS-001** | &#9744; | [001-011](/001%20011) | 14 | Old | [Schematic](/001%20011/001.svg), [Front](/001%20011/001_Front.png), [Back](/001%20011/001_Back.png) | [^cred001] |
| **JDS-011** | Untested - Fixed Pinout(?) | [001-011](/001%20011) | 12 | Old | [Schematic](/001%20011/001.svg), [Front](/001%20011/001_Front.png), [Back](/001%20011/001_Back.png) | [^cred011] |
| **JDS-030** | Untested - Fixed Pinout(?) | [030](/030)           | 12 | Old | [Schematic](/030/030.svg), [Front](/030/030_Front.png), [Back](/030/030_Back.png) | [^cred030] |
| **JDS-040** | &#9746; | [040-055](/040%20055) | 12 | New | [Schematic](/040%20055/040%20055.svg), [Front](/040%20055/040%20055_Front.png), [Back](/040%20055/040%20055_Back.png) | [^cred055] |
| **JDS-05X** | &#9746; | [040-055](/040%20055) | 12 | New | [Schematic](/040%20055/040%20055.svg), [Front](/040%20055/040%20055_Front.png), [Back](/040%20055/040%20055_Back.png) | [^cred055] |

[^cred001]:
    The original work for this board was done [here](https://github.com/HDR/DualShock4-USB-C) by Martin Refseth. I reworked his board to create kicad and schematic files for it. I also added compensation resistors as discussed above.
[^cred011]:
    Thanks to IcicaSora for providing the schematic for 011
[^cred030]:
    Thanks to 12brendan3 for providing the schematic for 030
[^cred055]:
    According to reddit user [u/Mcorgano](https://www.reddit.com/r/PS4Mods/comments/p2q3da/selling_dropin_replacement_type_c_charge_boards/h8oozja/) the pinout is supposedly the same between JDS-040 and JDS-055. The [idea](https://www.reddit.com/r/PS4Mods/comments/p2q3da/selling_dropin_replacement_type_c_charge_boards/h8os8rh/) for this dual board also comes from the same user.  
As of 11/08/2021, the 055 pinout has been confirmed by reddit user [u/jrmanpt](https://old.reddit.com/r/PS4Mods/comments/p6g08b/open_sourcing_the_type_c_charge_boards_help_me/hjoxedu/)
[^credresistormatching]:
    Thanks to CSab6482 in issue #4 for the suggestion to standardize the resistor numbering across all boards. Now R1/R2 are 5.1k and R3+ are 0 Ohm.
    
### Universal
The idea here is to create one "panelized" board which contains all above boards (JDS 001, 011, 030, 040, 050, 055). This means that someone could easily acquire a board for all controllers, then populate the one they need.  
Work can now begin for this panel. Though I've done enough work in March, so this will happen later.

# Parts
The goal with parts is to stay as consistent as possible between boards. Unfortunately, we have to use two types of RGB LED between the older and newer boards, but the goal is for this to be the only difference. Resistors are standardized to 0603 using the kicad hand_solder pads. We use USB type C connector C-31-M-12 to make soldering easy. Additionally, we use the Molex 530480 line of FPC connectors on all boards.  

Footprints or symbols which do not come with kicad by default are to be declared as project libraries, and included in the board directory as .pretty files. See 040 055 for as a reference.  

- New RGB LED:          [MSL0601RGBU1](https://www.mouser.com/ProductDetail/ROHM-Semiconductor/MSL0601RGBU1?qs=F5EMLAvA7IAg0rK0mfHa6w%3D%3D)
- Old RGB LED:          [MSL0104RGB](https://www.mouser.com/ProductDetail/ROHM-Semiconductor/MSL0104RGBU1?qs=%2Fha2pyFaduhThMWGX8bFHltJ8rIVfHrbMpgQU1T0g7RvDKWc6HIiGQ%3D%3D)
- USB Type C:           [Type-C-31-M-12](https://www.lcsc.com/product-detail/USB-Type-C_Korean-Hroparts-Elec-TYPE-C-31-M-12_C165948.html)
- FPC Connector - 12:   [503480-1200](https://www.mouser.com/ProductDetail/Molex/503480-1200?qs=%2Fha2pyFaduiit5JSGz5lsv1U%252BbZL3U56cNxg7eoCvCy3Ie8rHq3SFA%3D%3D)
- FPC Connector - 14:   [503480-1400](https://www.mouser.com/ProductDetail/Molex/503480-1400?qs=%2Fha2pyFadujj30aImGpM0ckpak%252BVtmx2aY5U9nBD5Hh2NWtQuUTDBg%3D%3D)
- Resistors:            [0603](https://www.mouser.com/Passive-Components/Resistors/Film-Resistors/Thin-Film-Resistors-SMD/_/N-7gz44?Keyword=0603&FS=True)
    - 2x 5.1k Ohm (Allows C to C charging) R1/R2 [All boards][^credresistormatching]
    - 2x 0 Ohm (Optional. Use for Impedance matching) R3/R4+ [All boards]
